.TH DATABASE 3 "06 November 2021" 

.SH NAME

database \- builds a database

.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBdatabase\fP [CATALOG OPTIONS...] [[DATABASE SPECIFIC OPTIONS...]] [--output \fIoutput-path\fP] [--help]
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

First, some terminology:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBCatalog\fP: A simple list of all stars we might want to ever identify, with basic information such as their position in the celestial sphere and magnitude.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBDatabase\fP: A more complex data structure built from the catalog. Databases are optimized to
answer certain types of queries quickly. Different star-id algorithms may need different databases.
.LP

Every star-id algorithm needs the catalog, and all currently implemented algorithms also need a database.

Databases generation can be somewhat slow, so database generation is usually performed on the
ground. That being said, some types of databases aren't \fIthat\fP slow to build, so if you're
worried about radiation corrupting the database, at least for some database types it may be
acceptable to re-generate the database periodically during a mission.

The LOST database file format is actually a "multi-database", which can store multiple databases as
well as the catalog. The different database types contain a key which the star identification
algorithms use to automatically select the correct sub-database in a multi-database. It's presently
impossible to include two different databases of the same type in a multi-database.

.SH STAR IDENTIFICATION ALGO <-> DATABASE TYPE

Different star identification algorithms require different databases:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBPyramid\fP: Catalog + Pair-distance KVector.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBGeometric Voting\fP: Catalog + Pair-distance KVector.
.LP

.SH CATALOG NARROWING OPTIONS

These options allow you to limit the stars that get added to the catalog. Generally you'll want to
narrow down the catalog so that it only contains stars that your imaging system is likely to
actually pick up, because any extra stars just slow down matching algorithms and increase the
likelihood of a bad match.

.TP
\fB--min-mag\fP \fIminimum-magnitude\fP
Narrows catalog to stars with magnitude less than \minimum-magnitude\fP (brighter stars have lower magnitudes).

.TP
\fB--max-stars\fP \fInum-stars\fP
Limits catalog to the \fInum-stars\fP brightest stars in the catalog.

.TP
\fB--min-separation\fP \fIminimum-separation\fP
Removes stars from the catalog that are within \fIminimum-separation\fP degrees of another catalog star. The default option is probably good enough for you.

.SH PAIR-DISTANCE KVECTOR DATABASE OPTIONS

The pair-distance KVector database allows fast (constant time) queries to find all pairs of stars
with an angular distance between them being in a certain range.

.TP
\fB--kvector\fP
Generate a KVector database

.TP
\fB--kvector-min-distance \fImin\fP
Sets the minimum distance bin in the kvector building method to \fImin\fP (degrees). Defaults to 0.5 if option is not selected.

.TP
\fB--kvector-max-distance\fP \fImax\fP
Sets the maximum distance \fImax\fP (degrees). Defaults to 15 if option is not selected. Should be set to no larger than your camera's FOV, otherwise you're just wasting time and space.

.TP
\fB--kvector-distance-bins\fP \fInum-bins\fP
Sets the number of distance bins in the kvector building method to \fInum-bins\fP.  Defaults to 10000 if option is not selected, which is pretty reasonable for most cases.

.SH OTHER OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--output\fP \fIoutput-path\fP
The file to output the database to. Defaults to stdout.

.TP
\fB--help\fP
Prints this page to the terminal.

.SH SEE ALSO
pipeline(3)
